## Topology Properties
### Compact Space
A compact space is a generalisation of the idea of closed and bounded on to topologies. The key idea is to not have punctures/missing points, i.e all limiting points of the space are in the space.

Formally a set is compact if every open cover has a finite subcover. In simple words, whatever subparts you take, you can always find a finite number of them that cover the whole space.

## Topologies
### Box Topology
When a direct cartesian product of multiple topological spaces is taken, we get a box topology. Ex. $R^2 = R \times R$

More generally $X = \prod_{i=1} X_i$. for $X_i$ topological spaces indexed by $i \in \mathbb{N}$. Then box topology is generated by the base:

$$
\mathcal{B} = \{ \prod_{i=1} U_i \mid U_i \text{ open in } X_i \}
$$

### Product/Tychonoff Topology
A more refined box topology where only finite intersections of open sets are considered.

### Difference between box and product
consider some $f: \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}^\omega$ with mapping $x \mapsto (x, x, x, \ldots)$

We consider the open set

$$
U = \prod_{i=1} (\frac{-1}{n}, \frac{1}{n})
$$

i.e, as an example $U = (-1, 1) \times (-\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{2}) \times (-\frac{1}{3}, \frac{1}{3}) \times \ldots$

For a continuous $f$, if $f(0)=(0, 0, 0, \ldots)$, then $f(\frac{\epsilon}2) = (\frac{\epsilon}2, \frac{\epsilon}2, \frac{\epsilon}2, \ldots)$ is in $U$ for all $\epsilon > 0$.

But for the box topology, this is not possible such that we only have to find $n$ such that $\frac{\epsilon}2 > \frac{1}{n}$, or, $n > \frac{2}{\epsilon}$. This is not possible for an infinite box topology.

## Separation Axioms
### T0 Space (Kolmogorov)
Literally the most basic separation axiom. Two points are distinct if they have different neighbourhoods, liek LOL bro. Or, every pair of distinct points is completely distinguishable.

Generally most of the well studied topological spaces are $T_0$ spaces, including $T_1, T_2$ spaces.

### T1 Space (Fréchet)
Let $x,y$ be two points in a topological space $X$. Then $x$ and $y$ are distinct if there exists an open set containing $x$ but not $y$ and vice versa i.e. we say that $x$ and $y$ are separated if each lies in a neighbourhood that does not contain the other point.

A difference example comes via the serpiniski space, where let $X = \{0, 1\}$ and $\tau = \{\emptyset, \{0\}, \{0, 1\}\}$. Then $X$ is $T_0$ but not $T_1$ because $0$ and $1$ are not separated i.e there is no open set containing $1$ but not $0$.

### T2 Space (Hausdorff)
A topological space is called Hausdorff if for any two distinct points $x$ and $y$ in $X$, there exist disjoint open sets $U$ and $V$ containing $x$ and $y$ respectively. Basically if two points are distinct, then their neighborhoods are separate.